---
layout: post
title: What's still on my todo list
---
There are a lot of resources I need to go through and many things I need to learn. I'm aiming to go through a big chunk of them this month and start better habits before the new year. 

## Continuous Todo List
* [Code everyday](http://ejohn.org/blog/write-code-every-day/) inspired by [Jennifer Dewalt](http://jenniferdewalt.com/).
* Better git commit messages 
* Contribute to open source tools that I've been using, possibly using [24pullrequests](http://24pullrequests.com/).

## General Todo List
* Learn more about Rspec and fixtures/factories.
* Learn about functional programming through JavaScript and see how it can be applied with Ruby's procs and lambdas.
* Learn how to use Linux commands like `tar` and `grep` effectively.

## Books to read
* Pragmatic Programmer
* Mythical Man Month
* Learn to Program
* Secrets of the Javascript Ninja
* Well Grounded Rubyist 
* Metaprogramming Ruby: Program Like the Ruby Pros 
* Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby: An Agile Primer
* Ruby Science
* The RSpec Book: Behaviour Driven Development with RSpec, Cucumber, and Friends 

## Even more questions
* What is NGINX?
* What is Mongrel's parser?
* What is Event Machine network I/O library and how does it work? 
* How does Rack middleware and Rack in general work with Ruby web applications?
* What is the difference between multi-threaded servers and multi-process servers?
* What is the difference between eager loading and lazy loading?
* How could I use capistrano, chef or puppet ?
* What is the difference between authentication and authorization in a Rails app?
* What is and how does garbage collection work in Ruby?
* How does the Rails asset pipeline differ from other pipelines in frameworks like Middleman ?